# Andre Hamm - Portfolio

### Water Database
This was a group project for my Database Systems class. The purpose of this project was to create a database application. We chose to work with the Westminster Environmental center and create a desktop application for them to keep track of the schools water usage. This helped us gain a sense of global responsibility, one of the college wide learning goals. We used MySQL and Java to develop our desktop app. 
This project involved a lot of collaboration and problem solving. It helped us acquire significant project experience in a group setting, one of the computer science learning goals. We did not know much about software development so our biggest issue was collaborating on code and delegating apprpriate tasks to individuals.


### Ski Math
This is a group project that I completed in Software Engineering. Our task was to develop a math or grammar game for 1st and 2nd graders. My group decided to develop a math game that was ski themed. The program would have two user groups, teachers and students. Students would be able to log on to their profile, play the game, and check their gameplay history. Teachers would be able to log on to their profiles, manage their classes, and view student progress. We decided to develop a web game using django as our web and database framework and unity as our game framework. I was in charge of using django to create and manage our database and web frameworks. One other group member was in charge of web layout, and the other two worked on getting the game up and running on unity. 
This was a great project. It gave me the opportunity to follow the Agile software Developement methodology, and work together with a team to create a runnable web program. It greatly helped in understanding the concepts and techqniques the This project involved a lot of problem solving, both individually and as a group. This project helped improve collaboration and communication skills, two of the colleges learning goals. It also helped me understand the concepts and techniques of software design, one of the computer science learning goals. 

### Chat Server
This Computer Networks projecy satisfied all of the computer learning goals. As a class, we came up with a chat server protocol, and implemented it in small groups. We had to decide on how servers would communicate, how a user would be added to the chat room, how they would exit, how they would communicate with one another, etc. At the end of the assignment, we all ran the chat servers we had created and attempted to communicate with one another. The program was written in Java, and I worked with one other partner to implement the protocol. The assignemt required a system level understanding of the computer, an understanding of software design, collaboration with a team, and effective problem solving skills. It was also a very satisfying project because at the end you saw your software working in a live environment!

### P8 - Ghostbusters
This was the last assignment for a semester long project in an Artificial Intelligence class. Each assignment in the project built upon the last and developed your understanding in a concept in AI. The premise of the project was developing an intelligent pacman player. We started by specifically coding the decisions a pacman player should make, and eventually we enabled it to learn and make decisions based upon bayesian probabilities! This project took a lot of creativity, one of the college wide learning goals. To properly implement each of the assignments, we needed a developed knowledge of programming and good problem solving skills. This was one of my favorite projects and it helped spark my interest in machine learning and artificial intelligence. 

### Cache Lab 
This was an assignment for the computer architecture class I took in the Spring 2019. This lab helped us understand how caches work, by coding a two level memory system. I worked with a partner to run a couple of experiments and improve our system level understanding of the computer, one of the computer science learning goals. 

### Text Summarizer 
This was my senior project. It was part research project, part software project that used an unsupervised network that generated sentence embeddings to summarize transcripts of telephone calls. The final product was a command line tool that loaded a couple of models and summarized transcripts or user input. This project took a lot of critical thinking, one of the college wide learning goals. Although I did not achieve everything I set out to do, I had to do a lot of problem solving. 
